

RECRUITMENT & SELECTION PROCESS 
 
 
Synise  Technologies  has  a  strong  belief  in  the  capabilities  of  human  resources  
which would provide a strong and vital base for higher productivity,  growth and 
success of the business. 
 
People  form  the  major  resource  of  any  organization  and  the  best  productivity  
and  efficiency  arises  when  there  is  a  right  fit  for  the  right  job.  The  recruitment  
and selection process hence arises as a vital system. 
 
Recruitment Process 
 
Once the approved Requisition is received, HR would jointly work out the person 
profile and the job content for that position along with the Head of the Dept. 
 
On finalization of the same, various sources would be outlined and a time frame 
for the position to be filled would be defined. 
 
Our sources of recruitment are as follows: 
 
• Consultants 
• References / networking 
• Media – Print / Online recruitment portals 
• In house Database 
• Employee Referral Scheme 
 
We  have   an   employee   referral   system   for   certain   key   positions   whereby 
employees are recruited through employees reference. 
 
Our Selection process 
 
• Resumes would be screened by HR and short listed ones would be put up to the 
concerned Heads for further short listing. 
• Involves  a  technical  or  functional  interview  by  a  panel  of  at  least  two  senior  
levels 
for middle / senior management employees. 
• On  assessing  suitability,  the  candidate  would  be  essentially  interviewed  by 
Human Resources for the final discussions of job and salary offer. 
• It  is  mandatory  that  salary  offers  are  not  made  by  functional  heads,  to  ensure  
that the salary offer is in line with our employee levels. 
• An  Interview  Assessment  Sheet  is  required  to  be  used  for  all  interview  remarks  
of   
panel   members,   without   which   a   selection   cannot   be   processed.   The 
Assessment form is enclosed as an annexure . 
• A  background  check  on  the  selected  candidate  is  performed  through  HR  which  
will be considered before making a final offer. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11 

 
EMPLOYEE REFERRAL PROGRAM 
 
 
 
The current openings will be informed from time to time to individual staff/ 
departments/organisation, solely as per management decision only . 
 
 
 
 Referral Incentives are as below : 
 
4For Trainee's (GRADE L0) - Any department & location - Rs. 2,000/- per referral 
 
4Junior positions (GRADE L1) - Any department & location - Rs. 3,000/- per referral 
 
4Senior Level positions  (GRADE L2A) - Any department & location - Rs. 4,500/- per 
referral 
 
4For Manager & all above positions (GRADE L2B & Above) -  Any department & 
location - Rs. 6,000/- per referral 
 
 
 
"When the referred candidate joins,  a Referral letter shall be issued to the employee & 
the incentive amount would be payable  after completion of 90 days (ie. 3 months ) of 
service by the new joinee. " 
 
This scheme is open to all employees (Trainees to HOD's ) & across all Departments. 
Please note,  inorder for you to avail  this benefit & for us to have a record, all referrals 
should  strictly be routed through HR on time & alongwith the referral form attached.
 
Hard copies will only be accepted .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
12 

APPOINTMENT AND GENERAL CONDITIONS OF 
EMPLOYMENT
 
 
 
Terms  and  conditions  of  employment  depend  upon  the  nature  of  appointment  
and are mentioned in the appointment letters. Appointment letters are issued to 
new   employees   as   either   temporary,   trainee,   probationary   or   permanent, 
contractual  depending    
on  various  factors  like  experience,  qualifications,  skills 
sets, requirement and nature of job etc. 
 
 
 
PROBATION &  CONFIRMATION POLICY 
 
 
PROBATION APPRAISAL 
 
A  system  to  gauge  the  performance  of  a  new  entrant  is  a  preliminary  step  in  
setting a quality performance consciousness in the minds of our employees. 
 
The  probation  appraisal,  which  will  be  prior  to  confirmation  is  already  in  place  
and  gauges  the  performance,  which  determines  confirmation  of  an  employee.  It  
is mandatory and forms the support document for regularization employment. 
 
1) For new employees taken as “Trainee” training period will be as specified 
in their appointment letter. 
 
2) For the new entrants except “Trainees” the probation period would be for 
a 
period of six months. 
 
3) At  the  end  of  the  probation  period,  based  on  periodic  feedback,  an 
appraisal  would  be  conducted.  A  specimen  of  Performance  Appraisal  is  
enclosed  as  an  annexure.  If  the  employee  is  given  satisfactory  rating,  
he/she   will   be   confirmed   in   writing.   If   his/her   work   is   found   
unsatisfactory,  his/her  probation  period  will  be  extended.  If  he/she  is  
rated poor  his/her services will have to be terminated permanently. 
 
4)  In  the  case  of  any  misappropriation,  embezzlement  or  any  instance  of  
fraudulent  transactions,  the  company  reserves  the  right  to  terminate  the  
employee with immediate effect without any notice pay. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
13 

 
INDUCTION / ORIENTATION 
 
 
Joining Process 
 
The joining process of an employee begins with the induction process itself. 
 
The responsibility of an employee joining at any branch apart from the HO rests 
with 
the Department head. He is required to inform HR by email or fax the exact 
date of joining of the employee. 
 
A form called as “ Human Resource Information form “ is required to be filled in 
once an employee joins and this form should be sent back to HR along with the 
following documents. The form is enclosed as an annexure. 
 
• Relieving letter from previous employer 
• Proof of last drawn salary 
• Experience certificates of all previous jobs 
• Xerox of all educational certificates 
• Two photographs 
• ICICI form (please look up in Salary Process) 
 
Salaries will be processed only once the above mentioned forms and documents 
are received by HR. 
 
Induction Process 
 
An Induction program offers a new employee a chance to familiarize himself with 
the  organization  and  processes.  It  helps  them  to  get  used  to  the  Organization’s  
policies,  structure  and  business.  It  allows  the  new  employee  to  assimilate  and  
find his place in the organization. 
 
We  would  have  a  batch  of  minimum  3-5  nos.  new  entrants  who  would  be 
required
  to  visit  HO  for  the  induction.  Alternatively,  an  induction  process  could  
be on individual basis. 
 
The  schedule  would  include  Introduction  Session  with  HR,  followed  by  sessions  
with 
the  various  Heads  and  their  team  members  and  introduction  to  the  senior 
management.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
14 

 
Regional Sales Heads would be required to  take  on  this  responsibility  for  their  
respective regions. A brief outline of the activities which could be done as a part 
of the induction process at regional level is given below: 
 
1.    On  the  date  of  joining,  the  concerned  Head  must  initiate  a  briefing  /  dialogue  
with 
the new employee and spend some time with him. 
2.    Guide  the  new  entrant,  on  issues  of  office  protocol,  attendance,  facilities  like  
lunch etc. 
3.  The new entrant should then be introduced to all the other branch employees 
4.  At HO, HR would do the initial orientation process for the new entrant, through 
an  introduction  to  the  Organization  Structure,  systems  and  processes  followed  
by an introduction round to the other employees and a tour of the premises. 
5.    The  new  joinee    should  be  given  the  Employee  Handbook  for    more    detailed  
reading. 
6.    An  official  email  id  and  a  log  in  id  for  the  Company  Intranet,  is  created  for  the  
new employee and a welcome note regarding the new employee/s is sent across 
the organization by HR. 
7.  Once the new employee has finished orientation the concerned Head takes over, 
and his detailed role and responsibilities are discussed with him. 
8.    Immediate  superior  of  the  new  employee  would  provide  feedback  on  the  new  
employee once a month to HR. 
9.    HR  would  also  meet  on  an  ongoing  basis  the  new  employees  to  ascertain  their  
assimilation in the organization. 
 
Salary Disbursement 
 
The  salaries  of  all  employees  would  be  credited  to  their  savings  accounts.  For  
easier administrative purpose and better banking facilities, we have tied up with 
ICICI in their power pay scheme. ICICI has branches and ATM facilities at places 
in all major cities and towns. 
 
Procedure for opening an account with ICICI 
 
• Employees  are  required  to  choose  any  branch  of  ICICI,  which  is  suitable  to  
them. 
• HR would provide the Salary Power Pay form of ICICI, and the employee returns 
the completed form to HR. 
• HR  would  then  sign  the  form  and  send  it  to  Pune  ICICI  branch,  which  in  turn  
would process the account and ensure its operation. 
• Employees are to ensure that all documents required for opening an account are 
sent along with the form so that there is no delay in the account being finalized. 
 
Those  employees  whose  accounts  are  yet  to  be  operational  would  get  their 
salaries
 through cheques or Demand drafts. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
15 

TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT 
 
a)    The  service  of  the  employee  may  be  terminated  at  any  time  during  the  tenure  of  
his/her employment as follows : 
 
b)  In case of employees who are on probation or working as trainee : By giving one 
(1)  month notice (i.e. 30 days notice ) /salary in lieu of notice for ALL 
employees 
 
c)  In  case  of  confirmed  employees  :  By  giving  one  (1)  month  notice  (i.e.  30  days  
notice  )    
/    salary  in  lieu  of  notice  for  all  employees  who  come  under  L0,  L1,  L2A  
grade & for employees who come under  L2B, L3A, L3B, L4 grade the notice period 
will be two (2) months (i.e. 60 days period) 
 
d)  By the Company without notice, if the employee is found guilty of insubordination, 
intemperance  or  breach  or  violation  or  non-observance  of  Company’s  rules  and  
regulations and the provisions herein mentioned. 
 
e)    By  the  Company  without  notice,  if  the  employee  is  found  guilty  of  tampering  with  
any  
bills  or  forging  documents  /  bills,  signatures  etc.  or  any  kind  of  fraud  /  
cheating / misappropriation etc. 
 
f)   By  the  Company  without  notice,  if  the  employee  is  found  to  have  given  false 
information  regarding  prior  work  experience  to  the  Company  about  position, 
compensation and tenure held / received etc. 
 
g) By  the  Company  if    the  employee  is  found  to  have  leaked    or  parted  with  any  
confidential information, source codes, software’s etc. belonging to the Company. 
 
h)  By the Company if found making false representation or commitments on 
behalf of the Company for which the employee does not have any authority. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16 

 
With effect from 1
st  
January 2009. 
 
 
 
 
In addition to the above TERMINATION POLICY, it shall further include the following 
(SCM group) – 
 
A)  In case of employees who are on probation or working as trainee : 
 
1) KAC/Select KAC/Sr. KAC – SCM group : 
 
a.  By giving 30days  (1  month)  n o tice  i n  w r it in g  or  sal a r y  in  l i e u  t h er eof  
OR  
b.  the  company  can  
termina t e   your   services   by   giving   15   days notice 
in 
wri t in g  or  sala ry  i n  lieu  the r eof.  
 
2) Officer staff onwards – SCM group : 
 
a.  By giving 60days  (2  months)  notice  i n wri t i n g o r sala ry  i n  lieu the r eo f 
OR  
b.  the  company  can  
termina t e   your   services   by   giving   30   days notice 
in 
wri t in g  or  sala ry  i n  lieu  the r eof.  
 
 
 
 
B)  In case of confirmed employees : (same as above ie. ......
 
 
1)  KAC/Select KAC/Sr. KAC – SCM group : 
 
a.  By giving 30days  (1  month)  n o tice  i n  w r it in g  or  sal a r y  in  l i e u  t h er eof  
OR  
b.  the  company  can  
termina t e   your   services   by   giving   15   days notice 
in 
wri t in g  or  sala ry  i n  lieu  the r eof.  
 
2)  Officer staff onwards – SCM group : 
 
c.  By giving 60days  (2  months)  notice  i n wri t i n g o r sala ry  i n  lieu the r eo f 
OR  
d.  the  company  can  
termina t e   your   services   by   giving   30   days notice 
in 
wri t in g  or  sala ry  i n  lieu  the r eof.  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17 

 
 
SEPARATION PROCESS 
 
Employees  who  come  under  L0,  L1,  L2A  grade  (i.e.  Trainee  /  Executive  / 
Sr.  Executive  /  Senior  Consultant  /  Assistant  Manager  /     Dep.   Manager]  the  
notice  period  if  he  or  she  is  on  probation  and/or  confirmed  will  be  one  (1)  
month. 
 
Employees  who  comes  under  L2B,  L3A,  L3B,  L4  grade  (i.e.  Lead  Consultant,  
Manager,  Regional  Sales  Head,  Business  Head,  CEO  the  notice  period  if  he  or  
she is on probation one (1) month and in case if he or she is confirmed it will be 
two (2) months. 
 
Every  employee  who  is  leaving  the  organization as a result of his resignation or 
termination,  shall  hand  over  all  the  belongings  of  the  organization  /  any 
literature/  product  catalogues,  CDs  or  any  related  content  acquired  during  the  
course of his employment under his custody to the Head of the Dept. There will 
be a proper handing over of current responsibilities to a person identified  by/ or 
the head of that team. 
 
Employee  will  not  seek  full  time  or  part  time  job  or  be  involved  in  any  way  with  
any  of  the    clients  or  competitor’s  of  the  company  either  directly  or  indirectly  
during  his    employment  with    the  Company,  and  for  a  period  of  12  months  after  
separation from the company for whatever reason 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
18 

 
 
CLEARANCE FORMALITIES 
 
In  the  event  of  termination  of  the  employment  in  terms  of  resignation,  the 
following
 procedure is required to be followed after the resignation has been duly 
accep
ted by the Dept. Head person. Intimation of the resignation should be given 
immediately to HR. 
 
• The accepted copy of resignation should be forwarded to Human Resources. 
• The actual date of relieving (last working date) should be clearly stated & informed 
IMMEDIATELY . This should be in conformity with company 
rules. 
• The  clearance  form  enclosed  as  an  annexure  should  be   duly  filled  in  and  signed 
by    respective  authorities  and  sent  to  Human  Resources  on  the  last  working
 
day by the said staff.
 
 
 
 
For all outstation employees 
 
• A copy of the employees’ attendance till last working date should also be sent to HR. 
• HR  would  further  process  the  form  and  make  necessary  calculations  for  leave  
encashment,  salary  payable  and  number  of  working  days  till  last  working  date  &  
forward the same to accounts department. 
• Accounts would process & then hand over the cheque to the employee. 
• An  exit  interview  would  need  to  be  conducted  by  HR.  At  branches  the  sole 
responsibility of the exit interview would rest with the Sales Head. The exit interview 
form is enclosed as an annexure. 
 
 
 
Completion of  Clearance Formality :
 
 
The  Clearance  formality  is  the  sole  responsibility  of  the  out  going  employee  .  
The 
initiation
  &  completion  shall  be  done  by  the  said  employee    &   duly  completed form 
shall  be  handed  over  to  HR  alongwith  accepted  copy  of  Resignation  letter   on  Or  after
 
the last working day
. 
 
The  full  &  final  settlement  shall  be  done  after  ONE  MONTH’s  period  which  starts  after  
the last working day of the said staff, subject to clearance of all matters. 
 
The  letters  shall  be  issued  by  HR  only  after  the  issue  of  the  final  clearance  
cheque by Accounts. No special case would be entertained for early separation & 
clearance formality. 
 
Also, note the stipulated notice period that is not completed would be  recovered.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
19 

 
 
LEVELS PREVALENT IN THE ORGANIZATION 
 
The employees in the organization are classified as follows : 
L0                -                Trainees                
L1                -                Executives/Consultants                
 
L2A               -               Sr.Executives/               Sr.Consultants               
/ Officer/ Sr. Officer 
/Asst.Managers / Deputy Manager 
 
L2B              -              Lead              Consultants              /Managers              /              
/ Regional Heads 
 
L3A               -               SBU               Heads               
 
L3B              -              SBU              Heads              
 
L4                 -                 CEO
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
20 

ANNUAL BENEFITS 
 
 
PROVIDENT FUND 
 
All  employees  shall  join  the  Provident  Fund  (PF)  Scheme  according  to  the 
Employees  Provident  Funds  and  Miscellaneous  Provisions  Act,  1952.  Twelve  
percent  (12%)  of  the  basic  pay  shall  be  deducted  towards  PF  and  an  equivalent  
amount contributed by the Company shall be credited to employees PF account 
with  the  Office  of  the  Regional  Commissioner,  Employees  Provident  Funds, 
Pune, Maharashtra. 
 
Every  employee  to  whom  the  Provident  Fund  and  Employee’s  Pension  Scheme  
Act  is  applicable  on  joining  the  organization,  shall  furnish  his/her  details  and  
particulars  in  the  prescribed  declaration  form  No.2.  He/She  is  also  required  to  
make  nomination  of  a  person(s)  conferring  the  right  to  receive  the  amount  that  
may  stand  to  his/her  
credit  in    the  event  of  his/her  death,  in  Form  No.2.  An  
employee  can,  by  filling  up  
new  Form  No.8,  change  his/her  nomination  given 
earlier. 
 
In  case  the  employee  was  employed  in  another  Company  and  was  a  member  of  
the Employees’ Provident Fund, then he/she should apply for transfer of his/her 
past  P.F  accumulations  to  the  new  account  on  this  company’s  P.F  by  filling  up  
Form No.13 in triplicate and processing the same through the old employer. The 
necessary forms are available with the HR & Admin Dept. 
 
When an employee has not been covered under P.F Scheme earlier, he /she also 
becomes a P.F member with the company on the date of joining. 
 
Some of the benefits under the P.F Scheme are given below : 
 
1.  For  purpose  of  a  dwelling  house,  a  flat  or  for  a  site  for  the  purpose  of  a  
dwelling house for self accomodation if the property stands in the name of 
the employee. 
2.       For       illness       in       certain       diseases.       
3. For marriage of self, children and dependent sister/brother. 
4.       For       post       matriculation       education       of       children.       
 
The  withdrawals  in  above  cases  are  subject  to  continuous  membership  of  7  
years 
in  P.F  Scheme.  To  avail  the  above  benefits,  contact  HR  &  Admn  Dept  for  
specific forms. 
 
The above withdrawal of accumulations are non-refundable. 
 
A  member  of  the  P.F  Scheme,  can  withdraw  full  amount  of  accumulation 
standing    
to    his    credit    if    he    has    not    been    employed    in    any    factory    or  
establishment  for  a  continuous  period  of    not  less  than  60  days  by  filling  up  
Form No.19 for P.F. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
21 